[Kommander] New topic on AppDeployments (#4490)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.2/appdeployments/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: AppDeployments
title: AppDeployments
excerpt: Use AppDeployments to deploy, and customize platform, DKP catalog, and custom applications in your environment
menuWeight: 50
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

An `AppDeployment` is a [Custom Resource][CRD] created by DKP with the purpose of deploying applications (platform, DKP catalog and custom applications) in the management cluster, managed clusters, or both. Customers of both Essential and Enterprise products use `AppDeployments`, regardless of their setup (networked, air-gapped, etc.), and their infrastructure provider.

> When installing DKP, an `AppDeployment` resource is created for each enabled **platform application**. This `AppDeployment` resource references a `ClusterApp`, which then references the repository that contains a concrete declarative and preconfigured setup of an application, usually in the form of a [`HelmRelease`][helm].

Author: ```suggestion
When installing DKP, an `AppDeployment` resource is created for each enabled **platform application**. This `AppDeployment` resource references a `ClusterApp`, which then references the repository that contains a concrete declarative and preconfigured setup of an application, usually in the form of a [`HelmRelease`][helm]. `ClusterApps` are namespace-scoped and are meant to only be deployable to the workspace or project in which they have been created.
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: AppDeployments
title: AppDeployments
excerpt: Use AppDeployments to deploy, and customize platform, DKP catalog, and custom applications in your environment
menuWeight: 50
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

> An `AppDeployment` is a [CustomResource][CRD] created by D2iQ with the purpose of deploying applications (platform, DKP catalog and custom applications) in management, managed clusters, or both. Customers of both Essential and Enterprise products use `AppDeployments`, regardless of their setup (networked, air-gapped, etc.), and their infrastructure provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `AppDeployment` is a [CustomResource][CRD] created by DKP with the purpose of deploying applications (platform, DKP catalog and custom applications) in the management cluster, managed clusters, or both. Customers of both Essential and Enterprise products use `AppDeployments`, regardless of their setup (networked, air-gapped, etc.), and their infrastructure provider.
```

> An `AppDeployment` is a [Custom Resource][CRD] created by DKP with the purpose of deploying applications (platform, DKP catalog and custom applications) in the management cluster, managed clusters, or both. Customers of both Essential and Enterprise products use `AppDeployments`, regardless of their setup (networked, air-gapped, etc.), and their infrastructure provider.

Author: note: under workspaces and projects, but nit as duplicate but in a single place and reference from the other.

When installing DKP, an `AppDeployment` resource is created for each enabled **platform application**. This `AppDeployment` resource references a `ClusterApp`, which then references the repository that contains a concrete declarative and preconfigured setup of an application, usually in the form of a [`HelmRelease`][helm].

> In the case of **DKP catalog** and **custom applications**, the `AppDeployment` references an `App` instead of a `ClusterApp`, which also references the repository containing the installation and deployment information.

Author: ```suggestion
In the case of **DKP catalog** and **custom applications**, the `AppDeployment` references an `App` instead of a `ClusterApp`, which also references the repository containing the installation and deployment information. `Apps` are namespace-scoped and are meant to only be deployable to the workspace or project in which they have been created.
```

> `ClusterApps` and `Apps` are namespace-scoped so that they are deployable to the workspace or project scope in which they have been created.

Reviewer: I think we don't need the second scope here.

```suggestion
`ClusterApps` and `Apps` are namespace-scoped so that they are deployable to the workspace or project in which they have been created.
```

> `ClusterApps` and `Apps` are namespace-scoped so that they are deployable to the workspace or project in which they have been created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Apps` are namespace-scoped and only deployable to the workspace or project in which they have been created.
```

> `ClusterApps` and `Apps` are namespace-scoped so that they are deployable to the workspace or project in which they have been created.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> For example, this is the default `AppDeployment` of Kube Prometheus Stack:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, this is the default `AppDeployment` of the Kube Prometheus Stack platform application:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps.kommander.d2iq.io/v1alpha2
kind: AppDeployment
metadata:
  name: kube-prometheus-stack
  namespace: <your-workspace-namespace>
spec:
  appRef:
    name: kube-prometheus-stack-33.1.5
    kind: ClusterApp
```

## Customization

If you want to customize an application, or change how a specific app is deployed, you can create a `ConfigMap` to change or add values to the information that is stored in the `HelmRelease`. Override the default configuration of an application by setting the `configOverrides` field on the `AppDeployment` to that `ConfigMap`.

For example, this is a customized `AppDeployment` of Kube Prometheus Stack:

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps.kommander.d2iq.io/v1alpha2
kind: AppDeployment
metadata:
  name: kube-prometheus-stack
  namespace: <your-workspace-namespace>
spec:
  appRef:
    name: kube-prometheus-stack-33.1.5
    kind: ClusterApp
  configOverrides:
    name: kube-prometheus-stack-overrides-attached
EOF

> ```

Reviewer 2: Here's an example
```
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  namespace: ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
  name: kube-prometheus-stack-overrides-attached
data:
  values.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      prometheusSpec:
        storageSpec:
          volumeClaimTemplate:
            spec:
              resources:
                requests:
                  storage: 150Gi
EOF
```

## Deployment scope

> In a single-cluster environment with an **Essential license**, `AppDeployments` enable customizing any platform, or catalog application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a single-cluster environment with an **Essential license**, `AppDeployments` enable customizing any platform or catalog application.
```

> In a single-cluster environment with an **Essential license**, `AppDeployments` enable customizing any platform or catalog application.

Author: ```suggestion
In a single-cluster environment with an **Essential license**, `AppDeployments` enable customizing any platform application.
```
